



    New government spending bill bans U.S. embassies from flying Pride flag - CBS News
















Latest

U.S.


World


Politics


Entertainment


HealthWatch


MoneyWatch


Crime


Sports



Local News

Baltimore


Bay Area


Boston


Chicago


Colorado


Detroit


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


Texas



Live

CBS News Streaming


Baltimore


Bay Area


Boston


Chicago


Colorado


Detroit


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


Texas



Shows

48 Hours


60 Minutes


America Decides


CBS Evening News


CBS Mornings


CBS News Eye on America


CBS News Mornings


CBS Reports


CBS Saturday Morning


The Dish


Face the Nation


Here Comes the Sun


Person to Person


Prime Time


Sunday Morning


The Takeout


The Uplift


Weekender






Photos


Podcasts


In Depth


Newsletters


Download Our App


CBS News Team


Executive Team


Paramount Shop


Paramount+


Join Our Talent Community


RSS Feeds


A Moment With...


Innovators & Disruptors






















U.S.


World


Politics


Entertainment


HealthWatch


MoneyWatch


Crime


Sports


Essentials








Watch CBS News













            U.S.
            

New government spending bill bans U.S. embassies from flying Pride flag




March 23, 2024 / 6:40 PM EDT
          / AFP
        



















U.S. Senate averts partial shutdown 











U.S. Senate averts partial government shutdown with late-night legislative package
02:39

Tucked in the massive government funding package signed Saturday by President Biden is a provision banning the flying of LGBTQ Pride flags over U.S. embassies. But even on the same day Mr. Biden signed the package, the White House vowed to work toward repealing the provision.The prohibition was one of many side issues included in the mammoth $1.2 trillion package to fund the government through September, which passed early Saturday shortly after a midnight deadline.As Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson, a conservative Christian, scrambled for votes to get the bill passed in his chamber, he allegedly touted the Pride flag ban as a reason his party should support the bill, the Daily Beast reported. 






The White House said Saturday it would seek to find a way to repeal the ban on flying the rainbow flag, which celebrates the movement for LGBTQ equality."Biden believes it was inappropriate to abuse the process that was essential to keep the government open by including this policy targeting LGBTQI+ Americans," a White House statement said, adding that the president "is committed to fighting for LGBTQI+ equality at home and abroad."


The White House said that while it had not been able to block the flag proposal, it was "successful in defeating 50+ other policy riders attacking the LGBTQI+ community that Congressional Republicans attempted to insert into the legislation."
An American flag and a Pride flag are pictured on the U.S. embassy in Moscow, Russia, on June 30, 2022. 

            
                NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AFP via Getty Images

                          
The law signed by Mr. Biden says that no U.S. funding can be used to "fly or display a flag over a facility of the United States Department of State" other than U.S. or other government-related flags, or flags supporting prisoners of war, missing-in-action soldiers, hostages and wrongfully imprisoned Americans.But while such flags may not be flown "over" U.S. embassies, it does not speak to displaying them elsewhere on embassy grounds or inside offices, the Biden camp has argued."It will have no impact on the ability of members of the LGBTQI+ community to serve openly in our embassies or to celebrate Pride," the White House said, referencing the month, usually in June, when LGBTQ parades and other events are held.


The Biden administration has strongly embraced LGBTQ rights. In a sharp change from the Trump administration, Secretary of State Antony Blinken has not only allowed but encouraged U.S. missions to fly the rainbow flag during Pride month.Blinken's predecessor Mike Pompeo, an evangelical Christian, ordered that only the U.S. flag fly from embassy flagpoles.In 2015, former President Barack Obama's administration lit up the White House in rainbow colors — delighting liberals and infuriating some conservatives — as it celebrated the landmark Supreme Court decision legalizing same-sex marriage across the United States.


More from CBS News






 Former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy: "Do not be fearful of a motion to vacate"







 Lawmakers unveil $1.2 trillion funding package in sprint to avoid shutdown







 Biden forgives $6 billion in student debt. Here's who qualifies.







 How to choose the right H&R Block DIY income tax filing option for you in 2024







 Recent assaults, attempted attacks against Congress and staffers raise concerns




In:
          Biden Administration
Pride
Pride Month
LGBTQ+
Government Shutdown

First published on March 23, 2024 / 6:40 PM EDT


© 2024 AFP. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.




More from CBS News






          Former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy: "Do not be fearful of a motion to vacate"
        






          Lawmakers unveil $1.2 trillion funding package in sprint to avoid shutdown
        






          Biden forgives $6 billion in student debt. Here's who qualifies.
        






          How to choose the right H&R Block DIY income tax filing option for you in 2024
        




























Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms of Use
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Live on Paramount+
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help


facebook




twitter




instagram




youtube



View CBS News In




CBS News App

Open





Chrome




Safari

Continue



Be the first to know
Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.
Not Now
Turn On



