Watch CBS News

            By Alexandra Simon, Madeleine Wright, Jessica MacAulay, Alex Torres


Updated on:  March 24, 2024 / 2:29 PM EDT
          / CBS Philadelphia
        
CHESTER, Pa. (CBS) -- The search and rescue mission for a 6-year-old girl swept away by the Chester Creek in Delaware County has transitioned to a recovery mission, officials said Sunday afternoon.
During a press conference, Chester Fire Commissioner John-Paul Shirley said crews will continue searching for the young girl, identified Saturday by family as Lin'Ajah Brooker, until dusk. At that point, Shirley said all search efforts would stop due to the danger of keeping crews in the water.
"We always had in the back of our minds, just based on the initial information, that it was going be a recovery after three hours," Shirley said Sunday. "But that being said, we didn't want to give out hope. Because we were looking for that miracle." 
"We were always hopeful that we could find something, now there's just without a doubt, once we had the sunlight on our side, and we're able to do a much more thorough search, that it wasn't going to be a rescue, it was going to be a recovery," Shirley continued.
There is a desperate search for 6-year-old Lin’Ajah Brooker, who family members say slipped out of a playground through a gap in the fence and fell into Chester Creek last night. Crews are using sonar, infrared and thermal imaging technology to aid the search. pic.twitter.com/AQZpBt1fX2
Earlier in the day, City of Chester Mayor Stefan Roots said the search for Brooker remained "aggressive," and that local rescue crews and the U.S. Coast Guard were using every resource at their disposal to find her.
"We are going to make every attempt that we can to get closure for the family by finding the young lady who is in the creek," Roots said.
On Saturday, March 23, a 911 call reported that a child had fallen into the water around 7 p.m. Initial reports indicated that two girls were playing by the water when Brooker slipped on mud and fell into the creek.
The Chester Bureau of Fire began a search and rescue operation in connection with Delaware County's water rescue team. On Saturday, the U.S. Coast Guard also had a small boat and helicopter searching the area.
Local crews suspended their search around 10:30 p.m. and resumed around 8 a.m. Sunday, though Coast Guard crews continued their search efforts through the night, according to Shirley.
Sunday morning, Shirley outlined some more of the tactics rescue teams had been using to find Brooker.
Smaller boats were deployed along the creek, from where Brooker fell into the water to the mouth of the Delaware River. Then on the Delaware River, larger boats were used to search on both the New Jersey and Pennsylvania sides.
"Every asset that we have at our disposal, we're going to be using," Shirley said.
Coast Guard helicopters flew over the creek throughout the day Sunday, as well as drones. Shirley said rescue crews are searching along all of the banks from where Lin'Ajah entered the water to the mouth of the Delaware River, and firefighters are using a brand new, underwater drone.
"It's remote operated. It has a camera on it. It allows us to basically see underwater without us having to put divers in the water, which is anytime you put divers under water, it's a dangerous situation," Shirley said. Shirley and Roots went on to explain that the underwater drone was recently acquired thanks to a $250,000 grant through the police department.
Saturday night, Delaware County emergency services brought down light towers to help search crews with visibility. Crews also launched drones with infrared and thermal imaging technology to help with the night search.
On Saturday, more than two inches of rain fell in Chester, complicating the search for Brooker.
"It's very rapid currents. There's a lot of debris in the water which poses a potential hazard to our responders, but they've been trained to kind of deal with those situations," Shirley said.
On Sunday morning, Shirley said conditions were much better for their search. The flow of the river reduced, there was less debris and depth had dropped by about five feet. However, crews are still being challenged by the cold conditions.
"We're still in search and rescue mode, but obviously as the time goes on, it's going to transition. We're not going to really call it a recovery mission until about 24 hours," Shirley said Sunday morning.  
Lin'Ajah's aunt, Tyeesha Reynolds, says she's praying she will be found alive.
"They was down there playing and she went down a little too far with the other kids. And my 7-year-old daughter tried to hold her. And she was holding on to my daughter's coat, and I guess the wind took her," Reynolds said. "It would be terrifying for me and I'm 40. She's 6. So I'm quite sure she's terrified."
At this time only one child is reported missing. 
Alexandra Simon is a digital content producer at CBS Philadelphia. Alex started her career at CBS21 in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania before joining KARE 11 News in Minneapolis, where she covered breaking news, features and often cold weather.

First published on March 23, 2024 / 8:40 PM EDT


© 2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.